WSU Smart Apartment 2009 Two Resident Testbed

Description

This dataset represents sensor events collected in the WSU smart apartment testbed during the spring of 2009.  The apartment housed two residents, R1 and R2, at this time and they performed their normal daily activities.

File format

Two data files are included in this release.  The file "annotated" contains sensor events in which the start and end of various activities are annotated at the end of the corresponding sensor event lines.

The second "raw" file contains raw data that has not been annotated.  The number of days covered and number of sensor events is greater than for the annotated data.

The third file "data" contains all of the annotated where activities are not segmented but are annotated with corresponding begin and end events.

Sensor layouts

The sensors can be categorized by:

   Mxx:       motion sensor
   Ixx:       item sensor for selected items in the kitchen
   Dxx:       door sensor
   AD1-A:     burner sensor
   AD1-B:     hot water sensor
   AD1-C:     cold water sensor
   Txx:       temperature sensors
   P001:      electricity usage

The sensor layout of the apartment for the annotated data set is shown in the file sensorlayout.jpg.  The sensor layout of the apartment for the raw data set is shown in the file sensorlayout2.png.  The sensors are the same but some renumbering was done and the power usage was added.


Activities

In the case of annotated data, sensor events are annotated with the corresponding activity that was being performed, where possible.  The set of activities that are annotated are listed below. Here, a label beginning with "R1_" indicates that R1 was performing the activity and a label beginning with "R2_" indicates that R2 was performing the activity.

   Clean
   Meal_Preparation
   R1_Bed_to_Toilet
   R1_Personal_Hygiene
   R1_Sleep
   R1_Work
   R2_Bed_to_Toilet
   R2_Personal_Hygiene
   R2_Sleep
   R2_Work
   Study
   Wash_Bathtub
   Watch_TV

All use of the data must cite the WSU CASAS smart home project.

D. Cook and M. Schmitter-Edgecombe,
Assessing the quality of activities in a smart environment.
Methods of Information in Medicine, 2009.
